Digital footprint is our image that is left behind us on social networking websites. Now a day’s recruiters are considering the digital footprint of the candidates into account while recruiting. There have been cases where candidates have been rejected because of the inappropriate content they have posted online. While companies have supported this kind of recruiting, many candidates have opposed this.
HR manager’s point of view is that a person who posts digital dirt and lets other people tag them in such posts is not fit to work in a company, where he has to work in a group which requires team skills. Their opinion is that this person might bring down the morale of the group which in turn might affect the entire company’s efficiency. While some part of this is true, some candidates argue that creating a fake social networking website account is too easy and H.R managers shouldn’t base their decision solely on this and they should inquire the candidates using their interview skills to know what they have found is true. Although there is some truth from the candidate’s point of view companies cannot risk their business and their image in the corporate world by ignoring the digital dirt posted online by the candidates. But the candidates point out that this leads to violation of their privacy and making a decision based on the online content posted by them online often leads to biased decisions as a negative impression is created in the mind of H.R manager about the candidate which might affect the probability of the candidate getting selected for the job. But companies argue that their H.R managers are well trained to be prejudice free during an interview and all the factors including the digital content posted by the candidate is considered while selecting them.
Although there is a strong reason for candidate’s concerns, selecting one by taking one’s digital footprint into consideration is an effective method for recruiting as it rejects people who posts inappropriate and rude content online, thereby safeguarding rest if the employees of the company from that particular person. Despite its effectiveness there is a possibility that the company might end up with personal data of its employees most which might not be appropriate and sane. Thus using this method to only store inappropriate digital content of the candidates is the best way for recruiting
